---
layout:     post
title:      Here, phishy, phishy...
date:       2018-07-30
summary:    A behind the scenes look of what goes into a phishing exercise targeting an entire company. 
author:     scott_storey
image:      post_image.png
category:   Security
---

The quality of some attempted phishing e-mails are questionable. They are incredibly obvious and many people will wonder who would *possibly* fall for it. 

This final e-mail is generally the only insight people get into a phishing attack, and maybe some statistics from the security team if they are feeling generous. So, it is understandable that people will have questions around the attacks being launched by security teams

This post will take you through the design and development of a phishing fire drill at Sky Betting & Gaming and answer some of those questions.

## Step 1: Identify what you are testing
The first step in a phishing exercise is to identify what you are trying to test. Often, this gets missed and people launch into designing a shiny looking e-mail. It's understandable, most of us would assume that we are testing people who are receiving the e-mail, but that's not always true.

A phishing fire drill could test:
* Technical controls that are in place to prevent individuals receieving the e-mail.
* Technical controls that are in place to prevent individuals responding to the e-mail.
* The incident response process.
* An entire organisation
* A specific job role, person or other subset of people.
* Propensity to click a link/open a file.
* Propensity to enter confidential details.
* Propensity to respond to the e-mail.

Without knowing what or who you are planning to test, you will end up with a generic e-mail send that most people will pick up on and you will be left with a false sense of achievement.

The primary focus for this phishing exercise was the incident response process across the entire organisation. But we also collected details on click through rates as a secondary focus.

## Step 2: Build a scenario

We know what we want to test, the incident response process and the entire organisation. Now we need to build that into a scenario to provide further focus.

The scenario developed was as follows:

> E-mail addresses of all employees have been leaked and are being used as part of a targeted phishing attack against the company. The SOC (Security Operations Centre) are not aware of the leaked addresses at this point in time. The threat actor is only interested in launching a low skill, low effort attack and will not be spending much time on the attempted phish. They are attempting a scattergun approach by hitting as many people as possible.

This scenario is key to how we approach and design the attack. 

The key points are:
* All e-mail addresses are being targeted - They have recently been leaked, is the data current?
* The SOC are not aware of the breach - They do not know the attack may be coming.
* The threat actor is spending little time on the attack - Timeboxed creation to 15-30 minutes.

## Step 3: Obtain addresses

For this exercise, we skipped this step. 

The scenario was based on addresses being leaked so we just used internal resources to generate the list of addresses. To simulate a slightly out of date data set, we included e-mails for employees we know have left the organisation.

Another common scenario we use is based on targetting those staff with a publicly available e-mail address, or in a certain job role. We could have simulated the attacker obtaining e-mail addresses publically using OSINT (Open-Source Intelligence), think hunting Linkedin, Facebook & Twitter, for their details.

It is more time consuming, but can hit home for some people on why it is important to keep details private.

## Step 4: Designing the Phish

## Step 5: Launching the attack

This is the point where people start to see e-mails. For this attack the e-mails were drip-fed, we had previously tested an attack where everyone in the organisation receives an e-mail at the same tim, so we varied the approach.

To simulate the threat actor wanting to spend as little time as possible on the attack we started by drip-feeding throughout the morning then a burst after lunch to simulate a frustrated attacker.
